posts/weekly-update-1.mdx, before:

---
title: Weekly Update 1
description: Welcome to the first in a series of weekly updates
date: 2020-10-11
image: weekly-update-1.png
---

Welcome to the first in a series of weekly updates. I'm writing these updates to relfect on the achievements of the week and to build motiviation for the weeks ahead.

## New Website

The major project this week has been the rebuild of my personal website (the one you're on right now). Previously, it was a simple [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/) starter, while most of my other projects use [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/). By migrating to Next.js I can use my existing knowledge, can share code between projects and have alleviated any context switching issues.

It's significantly easier to publish blog posts for the new site. This has renewed my excitement for writing and over the next few months I'm going to work on improving my written communication skills. I've already got a few ideas in the pipeline, one of these is a technical deep dive into how this site works (coming soon) but in the meantime feel free to have a look at the [code](https://github.com/jamiedavenport/jamiedavenport.dev).

Credit to [Beth Davenport](https://bethdavenport.design) for the bespoke logo and images.

![Logos](/images/logos.png)

## Open Source Contributions

At the start of 2020 I set myself the resolution of contributing to open-source projects. Admittedly it has taken me a while to get into the habit but lately I've been a bit more consistent with contributions.

[BlitzJS](https://blitzjs.com/) is a full-stack React framework that promises to make you more productive. It's quickly become my favourite tool to bootstrap new projects with, because it lives up to the promise.

Over the last week I've made a couple of contributions to Blitz:

- [1247](https://github.com/blitz-js/blitz/pull/1247) adds a shim to Blitz for `requestIdleCallback` which is experimental and not supported by every browser
- [1223](https://github.com/blitz-js/blitz/pull/1223) adds a more useful error message when developers try to use regular functions with `useQuery` and `useMutation`

## [TailwindUI x BlitzJS Recipe](https://github.com/jamiedavenport/blitzjs-tailwindui-recipe)

Keeping with the Blitz theme, I've also created a custom recipe for TailwindUI. This recipe makes it simple to setup TailwindUI within a Blitz app.

This combination of Blitz and TailwindUI is incredibly powerful as it allows me to focus entirely on the business logic without worrying about UX or wasting time setting up an API.

## Baking

Like every other techie during lockdown, I've been enjoying a bit of baking. This week I've baked these dinner rolls with a [recipe](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M9le93pztbU&t=387s) courtesy of Joshua Weissman.

![Dinner Rolls](/images/dinner-rolls.png)

## MAKE Book

- [MAKE book](https://makebook.io/) is a book by [this guy](https://twitter.com/levelsio)
- Explains an approach of starting profitable businesses called Bootstrapping
- Motivation for my own projects

## Conclusion

- Fun and productive week
- Plan to continue with development of the personal site & contribute more features to Blitz
- Also have some ideas for projects that I want to kick off in the next week

Commit message:

Complete the MAKE and future sections

posts/weekly-update-1.mdx, after:

---
title: Weekly Update 1
description: Welcome to the first in a series of weekly updates
date: 2020-10-11
image: weekly-update-1.png
---

Welcome to the first in a series of weekly updates. I'm writing these updates to relfect on the achievements of the week and to build motiviation for the weeks ahead.

## New Website

The major project this week has been the rebuild of my personal website (the one you're on right now). Previously, it was a simple [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/) starter, while most of my other projects use [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/). By migrating to Next.js I can use my existing knowledge, can share code between projects and have alleviated any context switching issues.

It's significantly easier to publish blog posts for the new site. This has renewed my excitement for writing and over the next few months I'm going to work on improving my written communication skills. I've already got a few ideas in the pipeline, one of these is a technical deep dive into how this site works (coming soon) but in the meantime feel free to have a look at the [code](https://github.com/jamiedavenport/jamiedavenport.dev).

Credit to [Beth Davenport](https://bethdavenport.design) for the bespoke logo and images.

![Logos](/images/logos.png)

## Open Source Contributions

At the start of 2020 I set myself the resolution of contributing to open-source projects. Admittedly it has taken me a while to get into the habit but lately I've been a bit more consistent with contributions.

[BlitzJS](https://blitzjs.com/) is a full-stack React framework that promises to make you more productive. It's quickly become my favourite tool to bootstrap new projects with, because it lives up to the promise.

Over the last week I've made a couple of contributions to Blitz:

- [1247](https://github.com/blitz-js/blitz/pull/1247) adds a shim to Blitz for `requestIdleCallback` which is experimental and not supported by every browser
- [1223](https://github.com/blitz-js/blitz/pull/1223) adds a more useful error message when developers try to use regular functions with `useQuery` and `useMutation`

## [TailwindUI x BlitzJS Recipe](https://github.com/jamiedavenport/blitzjs-tailwindui-recipe)

Keeping with the Blitz theme, I've also created a custom recipe for TailwindUI. This recipe makes it simple to setup TailwindUI within a Blitz app.

This combination of Blitz and TailwindUI is incredibly powerful as it allows me to focus entirely on the business logic without worrying about UX or wasting time setting up an API.

## Baking

Like every other techie during lockdown, I've been enjoying a bit of baking. This week I've baked these dinner rolls with a [recipe](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M9le93pztbU&t=387s) courtesy of Joshua Weissman.

![Dinner Rolls](/images/dinner-rolls.png)

## MAKE Book

Reread [MAKE book](https://makebook.io/) by [Pieter Levels](https://twitter.com/levelsio). This book describes an approach to bootstrap profitable businesses.

## Future

- Continue to contribute to Blitz 🚀
- Work on improving my written communication skills and write up some more blog posts 📝
- Start to work through my backlog of top class project ideas 💼
